.TH FEYNHIGGS 1 "1-Jun-2012"
.SH NAME
.PP
FeynHiggs \- the FeynHiggs command-line frontend
.SH SYNOPSIS
FeynHiggs parameterfile [flags]
.SH DESCRIPTION
FeynHiggs calculates the masses and couplings of the Higgs sector in the 
MSSM.  FeynHiggs provides a convenient way of invoking the subroutines 
of the FeynHiggs library from the command line.  The input parameters are 
read from a file and the output is displayed in a human-readable form on 
screen, but can be piped through a utility program to yield
machine-readable data files, e.g. for plotting.
.SH PARAMETER FILES
The input parameters for FeynHiggs are read from a file.  FeynHiggs
attempts to read an SLHA file first and if that fails, falls back onto 
its native format (description follows below).  Output-wise, the default 
is to write out an SLHA file (original filename + .fh-NNN) if the input 
was one, and write the output to screen otherwise.  Output style can be
changed by appending #SLHA to the filename to force SLHA output, and
#FH to force screen output.

Description of the native FeynHiggs format: comments begin with a #
and continue to the end of the line.  Apart from a possible comment,
each line has the format
.P
  var  lower  [upper]  [*][/][step]
.P
and declares a loop over
.I var
from
.I lower
to
.I upper
in steps of
.I step.
A "*" in front of 
.I step
results in a logarithmic stepping, i.e.
.I var
is multiplied by
.I step
in each iteration.  A prefix of "/" indicates that
.I step
is to be interpreted as the number of steps, rather than the step size.
.P
Simple assignments of the form
.I name lower
(i.e. no loop) are just a special case of this since the items in 
brackets may be omitted.
.P
.I var
is the name of the parameter, which is one of
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
invAlfa            | the inverse of the electromagnetic
.br
                   | coupling constant
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
AlfasMZ            | the strong coupling constant at MZ
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
GF                 | the Fermi constant
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
MS, MC, MT, MB     | the strange, charm, top, bottom masses
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
MW, MZ             | the W and Z masses
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
TB                 | tan(beta)
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
MA0, MHp           | the CP-odd and charged Higgs mass
.br
                   | (only one should be specified)
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
MSusy              | a generic soft-SUSY breaking mass
.br
                   | used as a default value for all
.br
                   | MgSL, MgSE, MgSQ, MgSU, MgSD.
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
MgSL, MgSQ         | individual soft-SUSY breaking masses
.br
MgSE, MgSU, MgSD   | for the slepton and squark doublets
.br
g = 1..3           | and singlets.
.br
                   | Default: all MgSx = MSusy.
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Abs(MUE), Re(MUE)  | the Higgs mixing parameter
.br
Arg(MUE), Im(MUE)  |
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Abs(Af), Re(Af)    | the sfermion mixing parameters
.br
Arg(Af), Im(Af)    |
.br
f = e,mu,tau,      |
.br
    u,c,t,         |
.br
    d,s,b          |
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Abs(Xf), Re(Xf)    | alternative sfermion mixing parameter;
.br
Arg(Xf), Im(Xf)    | since Xf and Af are not independent,
.br
f = tau,t,b        | only one should be specified
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Abs(M_1), Re(M_1)  | the U1 gaugino mass parameter
.br
Arg(M_1), Im(M_1)  |
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Abs(M_2), Re(M_2)  | the SU2 gaugino mass parameter
.br
Arg(M_2), Im(M_2)  |
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Abs(M_3), Re(M_3)  | the gluino mass parameter
.br
Arg(M_3), Im(M_3)  |
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Qtau, Qt, Qb       | the scales at which the stau, stop,
.br
                   | and sbottom DRbar masses are defined
.br
                   | Default: all 0 (= on-shell masses)
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
CKMlambda          | the CKM parameters
.br
CKMA               |
.br
CKMrhobar          |
.br
CKMetabar          | Default: all -1 (= use PDG values)
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
Abs(deltaFXYij)    | the flavour-violating
.br
Arg(deltaFXYij)    | parameters
.br
Re(deltaFXYij)     |
.br
Im(deltaFXYij)     |
.br
F = L,E,Q,U,D      |
.br
XY = LL,LR,RL,RR   |
.br
ij = 12,23,13,     | Default: all 0
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
scalefactor        | the ren. scale is MT*scalefactor
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.br
prodSqrts          | sqrt(s) for the production x-sections
.br
-------------------+--------------------------------------
.P
Needless to add that complex quantities should be specified EITHER
through Abs and Arg OR through Re and Im.  In conflicting
cases a warning is issued and the Abs/Arg value takes
precedence.
.SH FLAGS
The flags are given as an optional 9-digit string on the command line,
where the default is 400202110.  The positions in the string are as
follows:
.TP
#1: mssmpart = 0..4
specifies the scope of the 1-loop part:
.br
0: MT^4-approximation
.br
1: top/stop-sector
.br
2: top/stop- + bottom/sbottom-sector
.br
3: full (s-)quark/lepton-sector
.br
4: full MSSM
.br
.B recommended: 4
.TP
#2: fieldren = 0..4
determines the 1-loop field-renormalization constants:
.br
0: DRbar
.br
1: On-Shell, Dabelstein's convention
.br
2: On-Shell, 'Goldstone-pole' version
.br
3: On-Shell, MF I
.br
4: On-Shell, MF II
.br
.B strongly recommended: 0
.TP
#3: tanbren = 0..2
determines the 1-loop tan(beta) counter term:
.br
0: DRbar
.br
1: field renormalization part only (Dabelstein)
.br
2: mixed field/On-Shell-renormalization
.br
.B strongly recommended: 0
.TP
#4: higgsmix = 1..3
determines the mixing in the Higgs sector:
.br
1: All non-diagonal (ND) Self Energies = 0
.br
2: All CP-violating ND Self Energies = 0
.br
3: Full 3x3 mixing in the neutral sector
.br
.B This means:
.br
.B 2: evaluation in the rMSSM
.br
.B 3: evaluation in the cMSSM
.TP
#5: p2approx = 0..4
determines the approximation for the 1-loop result:
.br
0: None, i.e. full determination of the propagator matrices's poles,
   UHiggs is evaluated at p^2 = m^2
.br
1: p^2 = 0 approximation
.br
2: All self energies are calculated at p^2 = m_tree^2
.br
3: imaginary parts of self-energies are discarded
.br
4: as 0, but with UHiggs evaluated at p^2 = 0
.br
.B recommended: 4
.TP
#6: looplevel = 0..2
determines the inclusion of higher-order corrections:
.br
0: tree level
.br
1: one-loop contributions only
.br
2: include various two-loop contributions
.br
.B recommended: 2
.TP
#7: runningMT = 0..1
determines which top mass shall be used in the 1-/2-loop corrections:
.br
0: pole MT
.br
1: running MT
.br
.B recommended: 1
.TP
#8: botResum = 0..1
determines whether the O(tan beta^n) corrections shall be resummed:
.br
0: no resummation
.br
1: resummation of MB
.br
.B recommended: 1
.TP
#9: tlCplxApprox = 0..6
determines how the two-loop corrections are treated in the presence of
complex parameters (cMSSM):
.br
0: all corrections (asat, asab, atat, atab) are computed in
   the rMSSM
.br
1: only the cMSSM asat corrections are used
.br
2: the cMSSM asat corrections are combined with the remaining
   corrections in the rMSSM
.br
3: the cMSSM a_s a_t corrections are combined with the remaining
   corrections, whose complex phases are interpolated in
   At, Ab, M_3, MUE
.br
4: ditto, with interpolation in At, Xb, M_3, MUE
.br
5: ditto, with interpolation in Xt, Ab, M_3, MUE
.br
6: ditto, with interpolation in Xt, Xb, M_3, MUE
.SH EXAMPLE
Using the example parameter file that comes with FeynHiggs, the
command
.P
  FeynHiggs example/var.in
.P
should result in the following Higgs masses and mixings:
.P
| Mh0           =     113.89008624
.br
| MHH           =     195.87658697
.br
| MA0           =     200.00000000
.br
| MHp           =     213.63955069
.br
| SAeff         =    -0.35592463    0.00000000
.br
| UHiggsRe      =     0.99672973    0.08080741    0.00000000
.br
|                    -0.08080741    0.99672973    0.00000000
.br
|                     0.00000000    0.00000000    1.00000000
.P
and the following widths and branching ratios:
.P
| h0-b-b        =    6.018044E-03   0.825117       0.725474    
.br
| HH-b-b        =    5.165486E-02   0.559950       2.526224E-03
.br
| A0-b-b        =    5.896187E-02   0.848461       2.280889E-03
.br
| Hp-t-b        =    6.224386E-02   0.781530    
.P
Before the results, FeynHiggs lists the parameters of the calculation.
.P
With all the detailed information on widths and branching ratios, the 
screen can become rather crowded.  To mask off this detailed output, 
type
.P
  FeynHiggs ... | grep -v %
.SH CONVERSION TO MACHINE-READABLE OUTPUT
The output of FeynHiggs can be converted into a format more amenable to 
further processing, e.g. plotting, by the "table" utility.  This works as 
follows:
.P
  FeynHiggs ... | table TB Mh0 > var.out
.P
var.out then contains two columns listing TB and Mh0 for each pass of 
the loop.
.SH SPS BENCHMARK SCENARIOS
The SPS benchmark scenarios are predefined.  The input files can be 
found in example/SPS/.  To run a scenario, type e.g.
.P
  FeynHiggs example/SPS/SPS1a.in
.P
For more information on the SPS, see
.P
  http://www.ippp.dur.ac.uk/~georg/sps/
.SH LES HOUCHES BENCHMARK SCENARIOS
The Les Houches benchmark scenarios for Higgs boson searches at hadron
colliders are predefined.  The input files can be found in 
example/LHBMS/.  To run a scenario, type e.g.
.P
  FeynHiggs example/SPS/mhmax.in
.P
For more information on the Les Houches Benchmark scenarios, see
Eur. Phys. J. C26 (2003) 601 [hep-ph/0202167].
.SH SUSY LES HOUCHES ACCORD DATA
FeynHiggs can handle data files in the SUSY Les Houches Accord (SLHA) 
format.  If the input file is in SLHA format, the results (masses,
widths, etc.) are equally written out in SLHA format, to a file named as 
the source file suffixed by ".fh".  For example:
.P
  FeynHiggs example/SLHA/TestEXTPAR.spc
.P
produces example/SLHA/TestEXTPAR.spc.fh.  FeynHiggs can process SLHA
files in which the input parameters are given (Block EXTPAR) as well as 
files in which the masses and mixings is given (Blocks MASS, STOPMIX, 
etc.), where in the latter case the input parameters are reconstructed
from the mass spectrum.  For instance, try:
.P
  FeynHiggs example/SLHA/SphenoRP.spc
.P
For more information on the SLHA, see
.P
  http://home.fnal.gov/~skands/slha/
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The FeynHiggs debug level can be set using the FHDEBUG environment 
variable, e.g.
.P
  setenv FHDEBUG 1   (in tcsh)
.br
  export FHDEBUG=1   (in bash)
.P
The pager spawned to view FeynHiggs output is taken from the environment 
variable PAGER and defaults to "less" if PAGER is not set.  Should a 
program abort occur with FeynHiggs, it is advisable to set PAGER to an 
empty string, e.g.
.P
  setenv PAGER
.P
This prevents a pager from being started and ensures that the output
is shown right up to the point where the abort occurs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
libFH(1), MFeynHiggs(1)
