.TH FHCOUPLINGS 1 "11-May-2012"
.SH NAME
.PP
FHCouplings \- compute the Higgs couplings, decay widths, and branching 
ratios
.SH SYNOPSIS (Fortran version)
.PP
#include "FHCouplings.h"
.sp
integer error
.br
double complex couplings(ncouplings), couplingsms(ncouplingsms)
.br
double precision gammas(ngammas), gammasms(ngammasms)
.br
integer fast
.sp
subroutine FHCouplings(error,
.br
  couplings, couplingsms,
.br
  gammas, gammasms, fast)
.SH SYNOPSIS (Mathematica version)
.PP
FHCouplings[fast:1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
FHCouplings computes the Higgs couplings, decay widths, and branching 
ratios.  It uses the Higgs masses and mixings computed during the last 
invocation of FHHiggsCorr(1).  The flags and parameters must have been
set before with FHSetFlags(1) and FHSetPara(1)/FHSetSLHA(1).
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arrays passed to FHCouplings should never be accessed directly,
but only through the preprocessor macros defined in FHCouplings.h,
which needs to be included once per file.
.TP
.B error (output)
zero if successful, otherwise the line number in Couplings.F from
which the error message was emitted
.TP
.B couplings(i) (output)
the MSSM Higgs couplings.
This array is indexed with preprocessor macros (see below).
.TP
.B couplingsms(i) (output)
the couplings of a Standard Model Higgs with the same mass as the
respective MSSM Higgs.
This array is indexed with preprocessor macros (see below).
.TP
.B gammas(i) (output)
the Higgs decay widths and branching ratios.
This array is indexed with preprocessor macros (see below).
.TP
.B gammasms(i) (output)
the decay widths and branching ratios of a Standard Model Higgs
with the same mass as the respective MSSM Higgs.
This array is indexed with preprocessor macros (see below).
.TP
.B fast (input)
a flag indicating whether the off-diagonal fermion decays shall
be computed.  Unless the decays h_i -> f_j f_k (j != k) are
explicitly needed, they may safely be ignored, as they hardly 
contribute to the total cross-section.
.SH TOTAL DECAY WIDTHS
.P
The total decay widths are accessed as
.TP
.B GammaTot(h)
the total width of the (MSSM) Higgs boson, where
.br
h = 1..4  Higgs: h0, HH, A0, Hp
.TP
.B GammaSMTot(h)
the total width of a Standard Model Higgs boson with the same mass as 
the respective MSSM Higgs boson, where
.br
h = 1..3  Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.SH COUPLINGS, PARTIAL DECAY WIDTHS, AND BRANCHING RATIOS
The following macros access couplings, widths, and branching ratios:
.TP
.B Coupling(c)
the coupling for the scalar or vector channel c
.TP
.B LCoupling(c), RCoupling(c)
the left- and right-handed couplings for the fermionic channel c,
i.e. the coupling is
.br
                1 - gamma_5                1 + gamma_5
.br
   LCoupling(c) ----------- + RCoupling(c) -----------
.br
                     2                          2
.br
Equating this to S + i gamma_5 P, the scalar and pseudo-scalar 
coefficients are trivially obtained as
.br
   scalar = 1/2 (RCoupling(c) + LCoupling(c)),
.br
   pseudo-scalar = 1/(2 i) (RCoupling(c) - LCoupling(c)).
.PP
The couplings are given in the conventions of the MSSM model file of
FeynArts.  For couplings where the order is essential, the following
rules apply:
.br
- A charged Higgs at pos. 1 is always the particle, i.e. H-,
  this fixes all other particles by charge conservation.
.br
- For the H0ChaCha coupling, the first Chargino is the
  particle, chi-, and the second one the antiparticle, chi+.
.TP
.B CouplingSM(c), LCouplingSM(c), RCouplingSM(c)
the coupling for the corresponding SM channel.
.TP
.B Gamma(c), BR(c)
the width and branching ratio for channel c.
.TP
.B GammaSM(c), BRSM(c)
the width and branching ratio of the corresponding SM channel.
.SH CHANNELS
.TP
.B H0VV(h,vv)
neutral Higgs to vector + vector, where
.br
h  = 1..3  Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.br
vv = 1..5  vector-boson pair:
.br
           gamma gamma, gamma Z, ZZ, WW, gg
.TP
.B H0FF(h,t,g1,g2)
neutral Higgs to fermion + fermion, where
.br
h  = 1..3  Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.br
t  = 1..4  fermion type: nu, e, u, d
.br
g1 = 1..3  fermion generation
.br
g2 = 1..3  fermion generation
.TP
.B HpFF(p,g1,g2)
charged Higgs to fermion + fermion, where
.br
p  = 1..2  decay products: leptons, quarks
.br
g1 = 1..3  up-type fermion 1 generation
.br
g2 = 1..3  down-type fermion 2 generation
.TP
.B H0ChaCha(h,c1,c2)
neutral Higgs to chargino + chargino, where
.br
h  = 1..3  Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.br
c1 = 1..2  chargino 1
.br
c2 = 1..2  chargino 2
.TP
.B H0NeuNeu(h,n1,n2)
neutral Higgs to neutralino + neutralino, where
.br
h  = 1..3  Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.br
n1 = 1..4  neutralino 1
.br
n2 = 1..4  neutralino 2
.TP
.B HpNeuCha(n1,c2)
charged Higgs to neutralino + chargino, where
.br
n1 = 1..4  neutralino
.br
c2 = 1..2  chargino
.TP
.B H0HV(h,hv)
neutral Higgs to Higgs + vector, where
.br
h  = 1..3  decaying Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.br
hv = 1..3  produced pair: h0-Z, HH-Z, A0-Z
.TP
.B HpHV(hv)
charged Higgs to Higgs + vector, where
.br
hv = 1..3  produced pair: h0-W, HH-W, A0-W
.TP
.B H0HH(h,h1,h2)
neutral Higgs to Higgs + Higgs, where
.br
h  = 1..3  decaying Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.br
h1 = 1..4  produced Higgs 1: h0, HH, A0, Hp
.br
h2 = 1..4  produced Higgs 2: h0, HH, A0, Hp
.TP
.B H0SfSf(h,s1,s2,t,g)
neutral Higgs to sfermion + sfermion, where
.br
h  = 1..3  Higgs: h0, HH, A0
.br
s1 = 1..2  sfermion 1
.br
s2 = 1..2  sfermion 2
.br
t  = 1..4  sfermion type: nu, e, u, d
.br
g  = 1..3  common sfermion generation
.TP
.B HpSfSf(s1,s2,p,g1,g2)
charged Higgs to sfermion + sfermion, where
.br
s1 = 1..2  up-type sfermion 1
.br
s2 = 1..2  down-type sfermion 2
.br
p  = 1..2  decay products: sleptons, squarks
.br
g1 = 1..3  up-type sfermion 1 generation
.br
g2 = 1..3  down-type sfermion 2 generation
.SH MATHEMATICA USAGE
Mathematica and Fortran share the same names for the channels,
but due to the structure of the Mathematica output, the results 
have to be accessed in a slightly different way.
.P
To access the h0 -> top top decay, for example, one would use
.P
  couplings = FHCouplings[];
  h0ff = Gamma[H0FF] /. couplings;
  h0toptop = h0ff[[1,3,3,3]]
.P
in Mathematica, while in Fortran the same is done with
.P
  call FHCouplings(error, couplings, gammas, gammasms)
  h0toptop = Gamma(H0FF(1,3,3,3))
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
libFH(1)
