.TH FHRETRIEVEPARA 1 "26-Jul-2012"
.SH NAME
.PP
FHRetrievePara \- retrieve all input parameters from FeynHiggs
.SH SYNOPSIS (Fortran version)
.PP
integer error
.br
double precision scalefactor
.br
double precision MT, TB, MA0, MHp
.br
double precision M3SL, M3SE, M3SQ, M3SU, M3SD
.br
double precision M2SL, M2SE, M2SQ, M2SU, M2SD
.br
double precision M1SL, M1SE, M1SQ, M1SU, M1SD
.br
double complex MUE, M_1, M_2, M_3
.br
double complex At, Ab, Atau, Ac, As, Amu, Au, Ad, Ae
.br
double precision Qtau, Qt, Qb
.sp
subroutine FHRetrievePara(error, scalefactor,
.br
  MT, TB, MA0, MHp,
.br
  M3SL, M3SE, M3SQ, M3SU, M3SD,
.br
  M2SL, M2SE, M2SQ, M2SU, M2SD,
.br
  M1SL, M1SE, M1SQ, M1SU, M1SD,
.br
  MUE,
.br
  Atau, At, Ab, Amu, Ac, As, Ae, Au, Ad,
.br
  M_1, M_2, M_3,
.br
  Qtau, Qt, Qb)
.SH SYNOPSIS (Mathematica version)
.PP
FHRetrievePara[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
FHRetrievePara retrieves the input parameters from FeynHiggs.  This is 
the opposite of FHSetPara(1).  Its main use is in cases where the 
parameters were set through a FHSetSLHA(1) or FHSetRecord(1) call.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B error (output)
zero if successful, otherwise the line number in RetrievePara.F from
which the error message was emitted.
.TP
.B scalefactor (output)
the renormalization scale is MT times the scalefactor.
.TP
.B MT (output)
the top mass.
.TP
.B TB (output)
tan(beta), the ratio of the vacuum expectation values.
.TP
.B MA0, MHp (output)
the masses of the CP-odd and charged Higgs, respectively.
The one not used as input parameter is set to -1.
.TP
.B MgSL, MgSE, MgSQ, MgSU, MgSD, g = 1..3, (output)
the soft-SUSY breaking parameters for the g-th generation in the 
sfermion sector, specifically:
MgSL for the slepton doublet,
MgSE for the slepton singlet,
MgSQ for the squark doublet,
MgSU for the up-type squark singlet, and
MgSD for the down-type squark singlet.
.TP
.B MUE (output)
the Higgs mixing parameter.
.TP
.B Ae, Amu, Atau, Au, Ac, At, Ad, As, Ab (output)
the soft-SUSY breaking parameters.
.br
To give an example (and thus fix the notation) the stop mass matrix is
given by (DT1, DT2 are the D-terms):
.br
   ( M3SQ^2 + MT^2 + DT1    MT (At^* - MUE/TB)  )
.br
   ( MT (At - MUE^*/TB)     M3SU^2 + MT^2 + DT2 ) 
.TP
.B M_1, M_2, M_3 (output)
the gaugino mass parameters.
.TP
.B Qtau, Qt, Qb (output)
the scales at which the sfermion input parameters M3S[LEQUD] are given.  
The value Q = 0 indicates on-shell parameters.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
libFH(1)
