.TH FHSETPARA 1 "10-May-2011"
.SH NAME
.PP
FHSetPara \- sets the FeynHiggs parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS (Fortran version)
.PP
integer error
.br
double precision scalefactor
.br
double precision MT, TB, MA0, MHp
.br
double precision M3SL, M3SE, M3SQ, M3SU, M3SD
.br
double precision M2SL, M2SE, M2SQ, M2SU, M2SD
.br
double precision M1SL, M1SE, M1SQ, M1SU, M1SD
.br
double complex MUE, M_1, M_2, M_3
.br
double complex At, Ab, Atau, Ac, As, Amu, Au, Ad, Ae
.br
double precision Qtau, Qt, Qb
.sp
subroutine FHSetPara(error, scalefactor,
.br
  MT, TB, MA0, MHp,
.br
  M3SL, M3SE, M3SQ, M3SU, M3SD,
.br
  M2SL, M2SE, M2SQ, M2SU, M2SD,
.br
  M1SL, M1SE, M1SQ, M1SU, M1SD,
.br
  MUE,
.br
  Atau, At, Ab, Amu, Ac, As, Ae, Au, Ad,
.br
  M_1, M_2, M_3,
.br
  Qtau, Qt, Qb)
.SH SYNOPSIS (Mathematica version)
.PP
FHSetPara[scalefactor,
.br
  MT, TB, MA0, MHp,
.br
  M3SL, M3SE, M3SQ, M3SU, M3SD,
.br
  M2SL, M2SE, M2SQ, M2SU, M2SD,
.br
  M1SL, M1SE, M1SQ, M1SU, M1SD,
.br
  MUE,
.br
  Atau, At, Ab, Amu, Ac, As, Ae, Au, Ad,
.br
  M_1, M_2, M_3,
.br
  Qtau, Qt, Qb]
.SH DESCRIPTION
FHSetPara sets up the parameters for FeynHiggs.  From the given input 
values it computes the remaining MSSM parameters (masses and mixing 
matrices).  The flags must have been set before with FHSetFlags(1).
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B error (output)
zero if successful, otherwise the line number in SetPara.F from
which the error message was emitted.
.TP
.B scalefactor (input)
the renormalization scale is MT times the scalefactor.
.TP
.B MT (input)
the top mass.
.TP
.B TB (input)
tan(beta), the ratio of the vacuum expectation values.
.TP
.B MA0, MHp (input)
the masses of the CP-odd and charged Higgs, respectively.
Only one should be given: if MA0 >= 0, it is taken as input, otherwise
MHp is used.
.TP
.B MgSL, MgSE, MgSQ, MgSU, MgSD, g = 1..3, (input)
the soft-SUSY breaking parameters for the g-th generation in the 
sfermion sector, specifically:
MgSL for the slepton doublet,
MgSE for the slepton singlet,
MgSQ for the squark doublet,
MgSU for the up-type squark singlet, and
MgSD for the down-type squark singlet.
.TP
.B MUE (input)
the Higgs mixing parameter.
.TP
.B Ae, Amu, Atau, Au, Ac, At, Ad, As, Ab (input)
the soft-SUSY breaking parameters.
.br
To give an example (and thus fix the notation) the stop mass matrix is
given by (DT1, DT2 are the D-terms):
.br
   ( M3SQ^2 + MT^2 + DT1    MT (At^* - MUE/TB)  )
.br
   ( MT (At - MUE^*/TB)     M3SU^2 + MT^2 + DT2 ) 
.TP
.B M_1, M_2, M_3 (input)
the gaugino mass parameters.
If zero is passed for M_1, the GUT relation is used.
.TP
.B Qtau, Qt, Qb (input)
the scales at which the sfermion input parameters M3S[LEQUD] are given.  
There are two special cases:
.br
- The value Q = 0 indicates on-shell parameters.
.br
- The value Q = -1 selects the scale sqrt(MStop1 MStop2).
.br
The procedure is: compute the sfermion masses from the given input 
parameter, run them to the on-shell scale, and extract the on-shell 
input parameters from the latter.
.br
Qtau is presently not used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
libFH(1)
