.TH LIBFH 1 "30-May-2012"
.SH NAME
.PP
libFH \- the FeynHiggs library
.SH DESCRIPTION
libFH is a library of Fortran subroutines for calculating the masses and
couplings of the Higgs sector in the MSSM.  The FeynHiggs subroutines
can also be accessed through the command-line frontend FeynHiggs or
through the Mathematica frontend MFeynHiggs.
.P
libFH provides the following subroutines:
.P
--- SETUP ---
.TP
.B FHSetFlags, FHRetrieveFlags
sets/retrieves the flags for the computation, e.g. which 
renormalization scheme to use, or the scope of the calculation.
.TP
.B FHSetSMPara, FHRetrieveSMPara
sets/retrieves the SM input parameters.
.TP
.B FHSetPara, FHRetrievePara, FHRetrieveOSPara
sets/retrieves the numerical parameters for the computation, i.e. the 
values for MSSM masses and breaking parameters.
.TP
.B FHSetSLHA
extracts the parameters from a SUSY Les Houches Accord data structure.
.TP
.B FHSetNMFV, FHRetrieveNMFV, FHSetLFV, FHRetrieveLFV
sets/retrieves the flavour-violating parameters.
.TP
.B FHSetDebug
sets the FeynHiggs debug level.
.TP
.B FHGetSMPara, FHGetPara
retrieves (some of) the SM and MSSM parameters computed from the input 
values by FHSet(SM)Para.
.P
--- COMPUTATION ---
.TP
.B FHHiggsCorr
calculates the corrected Higgs masses together with the corresponding
effective mixing angle and mixing matrix.
.TP
.B FHUncertainties
computes estimates for the uncertainties of the Higgs masses and 
mixings.
.TP
.B FHCouplings
calculates the Higgs couplings to fermions and gauge bosons and the Higgs
self-couplings for a given mixing matrix.
.TP
.B FHSelectUZ
chooses whether to use UHiggs or ZHiggs for internal and external Higgs
bosons.
.TP
.B FHHiggsProd
calculates (approximate) Higgs production cross-sections,
.TP
.B FHConstraints
evaluates electroweak precision observables which are used as further
constraints on the MSSM parameter space.
.TP
.B FHOutput
run FeynHiggs functions and produce output according to a key and
write the output to a file.
.TP
.B FHOutputSLHA
run FeynHiggs functions and produce output according to a key and
save the results in an SLHA data structure.
.P
--- RECORD AND TABLE HANDLING ---
.TP
.B FHClearRecord
initializes a FeynHiggs Record.
.TP
.B FHReadRecord
read a file into a FeynHiggs Record.
.TP
.B FHSLHARecord
convert an SLHA data structure to a FeynHiggs Record.
.TP
.B FHLoopRecord
advances the loops contained in a FeynHiggs Record.
.TP
.B FHSetRecord, FHRetrieveRecord
sets/retrieves the FeynHiggs parameters from/to a FeynHiggs Record.
.TP
.B FHRecordIndex
translates a parameter names into its index in a FeynHiggs Record.
.TP
.B FHLoadTable
loads a data file into the internal table.
.TP
.B FHTableRecord
associates a FeynHiggs Record with the internal table.
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
General remarks: All FeynHiggs subroutines have an error flag as their 
first argument, and one should not proceed with the calling sequence if 
a non-zero error value is returned.
.P
The following gives a rough calling sequence, leaving out many of the 
optional functions.  Before invoking the actual calculation, the flags
and parameters have to be set up with
.P
  call FHSetFlags(...)
  call FHSetPara(...)
.P
Some of the MSSM parameters computed from the input values by FHSetPara 
can be retrieved using
.P
  call FHGetPara(...)
.P
Now the main calculation can be invoked with
.P
  call FHHiggsCorr(...)
.P
This yields the corrected Higgs masses, the sine of the effective 
mixing angle, and the Higgs mixing and Z-factor matrices.  Estimates
for the uncertainties of these quantities can be obtained with
.P
  call FHUncertainties(...)
.P
The Higgs decay rates, branching ratios, and couplings corresponding to
the most recent values calculated by FHHiggsCorr can be obtained with
.P
  #include "FHCouplings.h"
  call FHCouplings(...)
.P
Electroweak precision observables can be obtained with
.P
  call FHConstraints(...)
.SH LINKING
Just add the path to libFH.a and -lFH to the compiler command line, as 
in:
.P
  f77 myprogram.f -L<fhlib-path> -lFH
.P
For example:
.P
  f77 myprogram.f -L$HOME/FeynHiggs-2.7.1/i586-linux/lib -lFH
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
FeynHiggs(1), MFeynHiggs(1), FHSetFlags(1), FHRetrieveFlags(1), 
FHSetSMPara(1), FHRetrieveSMPara(1), FHSetPara(1), FHRetrievePara(1), 
FHSetSLHA(1), FHSetNMFV(1), FHRetrieveNMFV(1), FHSetDebug(1), 
FHGetPara(1), FHGetSelf(1), FHAddSelf(1), FHHiggsCorr(1), 
FHUncertainties(1), FHCouplings(1), FHSelectUZ(1), FHHiggsProd(1), 
FHConstraints(1), FGClearRecord(1), FHReadRecord(1), FHLoopRecord(1), 
FHSetRecord(1), FHRecordIndex(1), FHLoadTable(1), FHTableRecord(1)
